# Amazon_Vine_Analysis
## Overview of Analysis
### The purpose of this analysis was to analyze reviews for Amazon products. Amazon has a paid review program called Vine and this analysis was meant to determine if there was any bias in the reviews based on whether or not the reviewer was paid by Amazon. The analysis made use of AWS's Relational Database Services (RDS) to create a cloud-based database, PostgreSQL to create tables, and PySpark in Google Colab notebooks to run the analysis. For this analysis, I chose to analyze the reviews on books. I used the following dataset: https://s3.amazonaws.com/amazon-reviews-pds/tsv/amazon_reviews_us_Books_v1_02.tsv.gz
## Results
### The total number of reviews (Vine and non-Vine) was 404255. Out of these there were 242951 five-star reviews. My dataset unfortunately did not have any Vine reviews. So the total Vine reviews was zero, and therefore the total five-star Vine reviews was also zero. The percentage of Vine reviews that were five-star again was zero. Logically then, the total number of non-Vine reviews is 404255, with 242951 of those non-vine reviews being five-star reviews. The percentage of non-Vine reviews that were five-star was 60.1%.  
## Summary
### Since there were no paid Vine reviews, there is no bias for any of the reviews of the books in the Amazon dataset. Had there been paid Vine reviews, another analysis to determine if there was any bias or not would be to compare the total number of Vine reviews versus total number of non-Vine reviews per each item in the dataset. Then determine how many of the Vine and non-Vine reviews for the item were five-star. Assigning the individuals a value of whether the reviews are biased could be determined by a percentage threshold of non-Vine five-star compared to Vine five-star. Then a total dataset analysis could be performed to determine if there are more biased reviews compared to unbiased reviews.
